---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Refection 1"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2026-02-15
published: true
labels:
  - Project Reflection
---

Web Application Project: Mini Arcade

DeWayne T. Murray
Sullivan University
CSC272: Principles of System Design
Scott Cordle
Winter 2026





When tasked with creating a project, in order to choose between creating a Website, Web Application, Software Application, or Mobile App; I reflected on my previous experience to determine what I thought I’d be best at creating. Aside from not being able to choose a website as my project topic; I thought that it would be too easy. I also thought that the mobile application would be a bit too challenging for me. With it down to a web or software application I was able to narrow things down quickly because I feel much more confident with building a web application than a software application. This stems primarily from additional technology and software restraints I would experience as a result of choosing a software application. 

When the topic guidelines gave an example of creating an interactive game; I thought back to a rock paper scissors game and a few other simple game assignments that I have worked on in previous classes. I thought that that would be a great topic however I wanted to challenge myself a bit instead of just doing an easy project. Additionally, I felt that I was already playing it a bit safe by not working on a project outside of my comfort zone. This led me to create a Mini game arcade that offers several games that players can chosen from. The games were simple but demonstrate my ability to use JavaScript. The planned leaders board would have showcased an active database within my project. Yes, I did say planned leaders board, this unfortunately was a bit of a letdown as I would consider it one of my biggest failures within my project, but we’ll circle back to this. Overall, the entire web application demonstrates my ability to combine HTML, CSS, and JavaScript allowing me to demonstrate my various skills that I’ve learned as a web developer.

Week one I started developing my app. I didn’t do any coding but brainstormed to create a weekly plan for what I’d focus on to get my project completed by the deadline. I also stared thinking through how I would lay out my application. Some feedback that I received early on was that I was behind. That feedback turned out to be 1,000% correct. I would later learn this the hard way.

Week two was when I started implementing and building my site based off the plan I created week one. My goal was to build the skeleton and skin of my application. While working through this I played around a bit with different colors and layouts. Overall, this was a simple task. Looking back once I finished, I should have started working ahead on my week three plan.



Week three was a deeper dive into coding my application. I managed to get most of my games built but I kept running into minor issues with my JS. Each problem was something simple like typing or placement errors for certain syntax. This delayed me with completing JS for each of the games.

Week four’s goal was to finish up with all coding; however, it didn’t go as planned. I got down to two games that needed JS as well as the leader’s board. My initial planning did not allot me sufficient time to stay on track with my project timeline.

When it came to week five as with previous weeks I was behind due to insufficient feasible planning. During week six, which was well past the deadline.  I ended up eventually finishing my application with the exception of one key feature. As a result of being late finishing my application, I also ended up being behind on the final project report, and this assignment as well.

My biggest success from this project was that I got to challenge myself to make a fully interactive web application. I really enjoyed how the final outcome turned out; however, it was missing a key component. The purpose of my project was to build a mini arcade. What arcade or video game have you played that does not allow a scoring system? My application was missing this key component, and I consider that a failure. Schedule and effective time management was my biggest failure overall. If I gave myself more time and created a schedule that was truly feasible to manage and balance with my work and personal life, I may been able to finish my application in full with the leader’s board as I originally planned.

For other students and individuals in my position the biggest advice that I can offer is to read the instructions and plan carefully. You should ask yourself honest questions to determine what you truly can and can’t due within a certain time frame. Heed the caution of your professor or project manager. To also reiterate reading instructions and planning carefully; In my case, the project instructions advised not to take on too much. Although I wanted to take on a project to challenge myself; I took on a project that was too much and if I had dialed it down, I may have also had better luck completing my project and the additional assignments that followed on time. Don’t be your own worst enemy!
